README.md, before:

# ssh-audit
<!--
[![travis build status](https://api.travis-ci.org/arthepsy/ssh-audit.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/arthepsy/ssh-audit)
[![appveyor build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/4m5r73m0r023edil/branch/develop?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/arthepsy/ssh-audit)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/arthepsy/ssh-audit/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/arthepsy/ssh-audit)
[![Quality Gate](https://sonarqube.com/api/badges/gate?key=arthepsy-github%3Assh-audit%3Adevelop&template=ROUNDED)](https://sq.evolutiongaming.com/dashboard?id=arthepsy-github%3Assh-audit%3Adevelop)  
-->
**ssh-audit** is a tool for ssh server & client configuration auditing.

[jtesta/ssh-audit](https://github.com/jtesta/ssh-audit/) (v2.0+) is the updated and maintained version of ssh-audit forked from [arthepsy/ssh-audit](https://github.com/arthepsy/ssh-audit) (v1.x) due to inactivity.

## Features
- SSH1 and SSH2 protocol server support;
- analyze SSH client configuration;
- grab banner, recognize device or software and operating system, detect compression;
- gather key-exchange, host-key, encryption and message authentication code algorithms;
- output algorithm information (available since, removed/disabled, unsafe/weak/legacy, etc);
- output algorithm recommendations (append or remove based on recognized software version);
- output security information (related issues, assigned CVE list, etc);
- analyze SSH version compatibility based on algorithm information;
- historical information from OpenSSH, Dropbear SSH and libssh;
- policy scans to ensure adherence to a hardened/standard configuration;
- runs on Linux and Windows;
- no dependencies

## Usage
```
usage: ssh-audit.py [options] <host>

   -h,  --help             print this help
   -1,  --ssh1             force ssh version 1 only
   -2,  --ssh2             force ssh version 2 only
   -4,  --ipv4             enable IPv4 (order of precedence)
   -6,  --ipv6             enable IPv6 (order of precedence)
   -b,  --batch            batch output
   -c,  --client-audit     starts a server on port 2222 to audit client
                               software config (use -p to change port;
                               use -t to change timeout)
   -j,  --json             JSON output
   -l,  --level=<level>    minimum output level (info|warn|fail)
   -L,  --list-policies    list all the official, built-in policies
        --lookup=<alg1,alg2,...>    looks up an algorithm(s) without
                                    connecting to a server
   -M,  --make-policy=<policy.txt>  creates a policy based on the target server
                                    (i.e.: the target server has the ideal
                                    configuration that other servers should
                                    adhere to)
   -n,  --no-colors        disable colors
   -p,  --port=<port>      port to connect
   -P,  --policy=<"policy name" | policy.txt>  run a policy test using the
                                                   specified policy
   -t,  --timeout=<secs>   timeout (in seconds) for connection and reading
                               (default: 5)
   -T,  --targets=<hosts.txt>  a file containing a list of target hosts (one
                                   per line, format HOST[:PORT])
   -v,  --verbose          verbose output
```
* if both IPv4 and IPv6 are used, order of precedence can be set by using either `-46` or `-64`.  
* batch flag `-b` will output sections without header and without empty lines (implies verbose flag).  
* verbose flag `-v` will prefix each line with section type and algorithm name.  
* an exit code of 0 is returned when all algorithms are considered secure (for a standard audit), or when a policy check passes (for a policy audit).

Basic server auditing:
```
ssh-audit localhost
ssh-audit 127.0.0.1
ssh-audit 127.0.0.1:222
ssh-audit ::1
ssh-audit [::1]:222
```

To run a standard audit against many servers (place targets into servers.txt, one on each line in the format of `HOST[:PORT]`):

```
ssh-audit -T servers.txt
```

To audit a client configuration (listens on port 2222 by default; connect using `ssh -p 2222 anything@localhost`):

```
ssh-audit -c
```

To audit a client configuration, with a listener on port 4567:
```
ssh-audit -c -p 4567
```

To  list all official built-in policies (hint: use resulting file paths with `-P`/`--policy`):
```
ssh-audit -L
```

To run a policy audit against a server:
```
ssh-audit -P ["policy name" | path/to/server_policy.txt] targetserver
```

To run a policy audit against a client:
```
ssh-audit -c -P ["policy name" | path/to/client_policy.txt]
```

To run a policy audit against many servers:
```
ssh-audit -T servers.txt -P ["policy name" | path/to/server_policy.txt]
```

To create a policy based on a target server (which can be manually edited; see official built-in policies for syntax examples):
```
ssh-audit -M new_policy.txt targetserver
```

### Server Standard Audit Example
Below is a screen shot of the standard server-auditing output when connecting to an unhardened OpenSSH v5.3 service:
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/64388792-317e6f80-d00e-11e9-826e-a4934769bb07.png)

### Server Policy Audit Example
Below is a screen shot of the policy auditing output when connecting to an un-hardened Ubuntu Server 20.04 machine:
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/94370881-95178700-00c0-11eb-8705-3157a4669dc0.png)

After applying the steps in the hardening guide (see below), the output changes to the following:
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/94370873-87620180-00c0-11eb-9a59-469f61a56ce1.png)

### Client Standard Audit Example
Below is a screen shot of the client-auditing output when an unhardened OpenSSH v7.2 client connects:
![client_screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/68867998-b946c100-06c4-11ea-975f-1f47e4178a74.png)

### Hardening Guides
Guides to harden server & client configuration can be found here: [https://www.ssh-audit.com/hardening_guides.html](https://www.ssh-audit.com/hardening_guides.html)

### Pre-Built Packages
Pre-built packages are available for Windows (see the releases page), on PyPI, Snap, and Homebrew.

To install from PyPI:
```
$ pip3 install ssh-audit
```

To install the Snap package:
```
$ snap install ssh-audit
```

To install on Homebrew:
```
$ brew install ssh-audit
```

To install from Dockerhub:
```
$ docker pull positronsecurity/ssh-audit
```
(Then run with: `docker run -it -p 2222:2222 positronsecurity/ssh-audit 10.1.1.1`)

### Web Front-End
For convenience, a web front-end on top of the command-line tool is available at [https://www.ssh-audit.com/](https://www.ssh-audit.com/).

## ChangeLog
### v2.3.1-dev (???)
 - Now parses public key sizes for `rsa-sha2-256-cert-v01@openssh.com` and `rsa-sha2-512-cert-v01@openssh.com` host key types.
 - Built-in policies now include CA key requirements (if certificates are in use).
 - Migrated pre-made policies from external files to internal database.
 - Split single 3,500 line script into many files (by class).
 - Added setup.py support; credit [Ganden Schaffner](https://github.com/gschaffner).
 - Added 1 new cipher: `des-cbc@ssh.com`.

### v2.3.0 (2020-09-27)
 - Added new policy auditing functionality to test adherence to a hardening guide/standard configuration (see `-L`/`--list-policies`, `-M`/`--make-policy` and `-P`/`--policy`).  For an in-depth tutorial, see <https://www.positronsecurity.com/blog/2020-09-27-ssh-policy-configuration-checks-with-ssh-audit/>.
 - Created new man page (see `ssh-audit.1` file).
 - 1024-bit moduli upgraded from warnings to failures.
 - Many Python 2 code clean-ups, testing framework improvements, pylint & flake8 fixes, and mypy type comments; credit [Jürgen Gmach](https://github.com/jugmac00).
 - Added feature to look up algorithms in internal database (see `--lookup`); credit [Adam Russell](https://github.com/thecliguy).
 - Suppress recommendation of token host key types.
 - Added check for use-after-free vulnerability in PuTTY v0.73.
 - Added 11 new host key types: `ssh-rsa1`, `ssh-dss-sha256@ssh.com`, `ssh-gost2001`, `ssh-gost2012-256`, `ssh-gost2012-512`, `spki-sign-rsa`, `ssh-ed448`, `x509v3-ecdsa-sha2-nistp256`, `x509v3-ecdsa-sha2-nistp384`, `x509v3-ecdsa-sha2-nistp521`, `x509v3-rsa2048-sha256`.
 - Added 8 new key exchanges: `diffie-hellman-group1-sha256`, `kexAlgoCurve25519SHA256`, `Curve25519SHA256`, `gss-group14-sha256-`, `gss-group15-sha512-`, `gss-group16-sha512-`, `gss-nistp256-sha256-`, `gss-curve25519-sha256-`.
 - Added 5 new ciphers: `blowfish`, `AEAD_AES_128_GCM`, `AEAD_AES_256_GCM`, `crypticore128@ssh.com`, `seed-cbc@ssh.com`.
 - Added 3 new MACs: `chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com`, `hmac-sha3-224`, `crypticore-mac@ssh.com`.

### v2.2.0 (2020-03-11)
 - Marked host key type `ssh-rsa` as weak due to [practical SHA-1 collisions](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/014.pdf).
 - Added Windows builds.
 - Added 10 new host key types: `ecdsa-sha2-1.3.132.0.10`, `x509v3-sign-dss`, `x509v3-sign-rsa`, `x509v3-sign-rsa-sha256@ssh.com`, `x509v3-ssh-dss`, `x509v3-ssh-rsa`, `sk-ecdsa-sha2-nistp256-cert-v01@openssh.com`, `sk-ecdsa-sha2-nistp256@openssh.com`, `sk-ssh-ed25519-cert-v01@openssh.com`, and `sk-ssh-ed25519@openssh.com`.
 - Added 18 new key exchanges: `diffie-hellman-group14-sha256@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group15-sha256@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group15-sha384@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group16-sha384@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group16-sha512@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group18-sha512@ssh.com`, `ecdh-sha2-curve25519`, `ecdh-sha2-nistb233`, `ecdh-sha2-nistb409`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk163`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk233`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk283`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk409`, `ecdh-sha2-nistp192`, `ecdh-sha2-nistp224`, `ecdh-sha2-nistt571`, `gss-gex-sha1-`, and `gss-group1-sha1-`.
 - Added 9 new ciphers: `camellia128-cbc`, `camellia128-ctr`, `camellia192-cbc`, `camellia192-ctr`, `camellia256-cbc`, `camellia256-ctr`, `aes128-gcm`, `aes256-gcm`, and `chacha20-poly1305`.
 - Added 2 new MACs: `aes128-gcm` and `aes256-gcm`.

### v2.1.1 (2019-11-26)
 - Added 2 new host key types: `rsa-sha2-256-cert-v01@openssh.com`, `rsa-sha2-512-cert-v01@openssh.com`.
 - Added 2 new ciphers: `des`, `3des`.
 - Added 3 new PuTTY vulnerabilities.
 - During client testing, client IP address is now listed in output.

### v2.1.0 (2019-11-14)
 - Added client software auditing functionality (see `-c` / `--client-audit` option).
 - Added JSON output option (see `-j` / `--json` option; credit [Andreas Jaggi](https://github.com/x-way)).
 - Fixed crash while scanning Solaris Sun_SSH.
 - Added 9 new key exchanges: `gss-group1-sha1-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-gex-sha1-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-group14-sha1-`, `gss-group14-sha1-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-group14-sha256-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-group15-sha512-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `diffie-hellman-group15-sha256`, `ecdh-sha2-1.3.132.0.10`, `curve448-sha512`.
 - Added 1 new host key type: `ecdsa-sha2-1.3.132.0.10`.
 - Added 4 new ciphers: `idea-cbc`, `serpent128-cbc`, `serpent192-cbc`, `serpent256-cbc`.
 - Added 6 new MACs: `hmac-sha2-256-96-etm@openssh.com`, `hmac-sha2-512-96-etm@openssh.com`, `hmac-ripemd`, `hmac-sha256-96@ssh.com`, `umac-32@openssh.com`, `umac-96@openssh.com`.

### v2.0.0 (2019-08-29)
 - Forked from https://github.com/arthepsy/ssh-audit (development was stalled, and developer went MIA).
 - Added RSA host key length test.
 - Added RSA certificate key length test.
 - Added Diffie-Hellman modulus size test.
 - Now outputs host key fingerprints for RSA and ED25519.
 - Added 5 new key exchanges: `sntrup4591761x25519-sha512@tinyssh.org`, `diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha256@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha512@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group16-sha256`, `diffie-hellman-group17-sha512`.
 - Added 3 new encryption algorithms: `des-cbc-ssh1`, `blowfish-ctr`, `twofish-ctr`.
 - Added 10 new MACs: `hmac-sha2-56`, `hmac-sha2-224`, `hmac-sha2-384`, `hmac-sha3-256`, `hmac-sha3-384`, `hmac-sha3-512`, `hmac-sha256`, `hmac-sha256@ssh.com`, `hmac-sha512`, `hmac-512@ssh.com`.
 - Added command line argument (`-t` / `--timeout`) for connection & reading timeouts.
 - Updated CVEs for libssh & Dropbear.

### v1.7.0 (2016-10-26)
 - implement options to allow specify IPv4/IPv6 usage and order of precedence
 - implement option to specify remote port (old behavior kept for compatibility)
 - add colors support for Microsoft Windows via optional colorama dependency
 - fix encoding and decoding issues, add tests, do not crash on encoding errors
 - use mypy-lang for static type checking and verify all code

### v1.6.0 (2016-10-14)
 - implement algorithm recommendations section (based on recognized software)
 - implement full libssh support (version history, algorithms, security, etc)
 - fix SSH-1.99 banner recognition and version comparison functionality
 - do not output empty algorithms (happens for misconfigured servers)
 - make consistent output for Python 3.x versions
 - add a lot more tests (conf, banner, software, SSH1/SSH2, output, etc)
 - use Travis CI to test for multiple Python versions (2.6-3.5, pypy, pypy3)

### v1.5.0 (2016-09-20)
 - create security section for related security information
 - match and output assigned CVE list and security issues for Dropbear SSH
 - implement full SSH1 support with fingerprint information
 - automatically fallback to SSH1 on protocol mismatch
 - add new options to force SSH1 or SSH2 (both allowed by default)
 - parse banner information and convert it to specific software and OS version
 - do not use padding in batch mode
 - several fixes (Cisco sshd, rare hangs, error handling, etc)

### v1.0.20160902
 - implement batch output option
 - implement minimum output level option
 - fix compatibility with Python 2.6

### v1.0.20160812
 - implement SSH version compatibility feature
 - fix wrong mac algorithm warning
 - fix Dropbear SSH version typo
 - parse pre-banner header
 - better errors handling

### v1.0.20160803
 - use OpenSSH 7.3 banner
 - add new key-exchange algorithms

### v1.0.20160207
 - use OpenSSH 7.2 banner
 - additional warnings for OpenSSH 7.2 
 - fix OpenSSH 7.0 failure messages
 - add rijndael-cbc failure message from OpenSSH 6.7

### v1.0.20160105
 - multiple additional warnings
 - support for none algorithm
 - better compression handling  
 - ensure reading enough data (fixes few Linux SSH)  

### v1.0.20151230
 - Dropbear SSH support  

### v1.0.20151223
 - initial version

Commit message:

Flag 'ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com' as unsafe due to SHA-1 hash.

README.md, after:

# ssh-audit
<!--
[![travis build status](https://api.travis-ci.org/arthepsy/ssh-audit.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/arthepsy/ssh-audit)
[![appveyor build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/4m5r73m0r023edil/branch/develop?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/arthepsy/ssh-audit)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/arthepsy/ssh-audit/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/arthepsy/ssh-audit)
[![Quality Gate](https://sonarqube.com/api/badges/gate?key=arthepsy-github%3Assh-audit%3Adevelop&template=ROUNDED)](https://sq.evolutiongaming.com/dashboard?id=arthepsy-github%3Assh-audit%3Adevelop)  
-->
**ssh-audit** is a tool for ssh server & client configuration auditing.

[jtesta/ssh-audit](https://github.com/jtesta/ssh-audit/) (v2.0+) is the updated and maintained version of ssh-audit forked from [arthepsy/ssh-audit](https://github.com/arthepsy/ssh-audit) (v1.x) due to inactivity.

## Features
- SSH1 and SSH2 protocol server support;
- analyze SSH client configuration;
- grab banner, recognize device or software and operating system, detect compression;
- gather key-exchange, host-key, encryption and message authentication code algorithms;
- output algorithm information (available since, removed/disabled, unsafe/weak/legacy, etc);
- output algorithm recommendations (append or remove based on recognized software version);
- output security information (related issues, assigned CVE list, etc);
- analyze SSH version compatibility based on algorithm information;
- historical information from OpenSSH, Dropbear SSH and libssh;
- policy scans to ensure adherence to a hardened/standard configuration;
- runs on Linux and Windows;
- no dependencies

## Usage
```
usage: ssh-audit.py [options] <host>

   -h,  --help             print this help
   -1,  --ssh1             force ssh version 1 only
   -2,  --ssh2             force ssh version 2 only
   -4,  --ipv4             enable IPv4 (order of precedence)
   -6,  --ipv6             enable IPv6 (order of precedence)
   -b,  --batch            batch output
   -c,  --client-audit     starts a server on port 2222 to audit client
                               software config (use -p to change port;
                               use -t to change timeout)
   -j,  --json             JSON output
   -l,  --level=<level>    minimum output level (info|warn|fail)
   -L,  --list-policies    list all the official, built-in policies
        --lookup=<alg1,alg2,...>    looks up an algorithm(s) without
                                    connecting to a server
   -M,  --make-policy=<policy.txt>  creates a policy based on the target server
                                    (i.e.: the target server has the ideal
                                    configuration that other servers should
                                    adhere to)
   -n,  --no-colors        disable colors
   -p,  --port=<port>      port to connect
   -P,  --policy=<"policy name" | policy.txt>  run a policy test using the
                                                   specified policy
   -t,  --timeout=<secs>   timeout (in seconds) for connection and reading
                               (default: 5)
   -T,  --targets=<hosts.txt>  a file containing a list of target hosts (one
                                   per line, format HOST[:PORT])
   -v,  --verbose          verbose output
```
* if both IPv4 and IPv6 are used, order of precedence can be set by using either `-46` or `-64`.  
* batch flag `-b` will output sections without header and without empty lines (implies verbose flag).  
* verbose flag `-v` will prefix each line with section type and algorithm name.  
* an exit code of 0 is returned when all algorithms are considered secure (for a standard audit), or when a policy check passes (for a policy audit).

Basic server auditing:
```
ssh-audit localhost
ssh-audit 127.0.0.1
ssh-audit 127.0.0.1:222
ssh-audit ::1
ssh-audit [::1]:222
```

To run a standard audit against many servers (place targets into servers.txt, one on each line in the format of `HOST[:PORT]`):

```
ssh-audit -T servers.txt
```

To audit a client configuration (listens on port 2222 by default; connect using `ssh -p 2222 anything@localhost`):

```
ssh-audit -c
```

To audit a client configuration, with a listener on port 4567:
```
ssh-audit -c -p 4567
```

To  list all official built-in policies (hint: use resulting file paths with `-P`/`--policy`):
```
ssh-audit -L
```

To run a policy audit against a server:
```
ssh-audit -P ["policy name" | path/to/server_policy.txt] targetserver
```

To run a policy audit against a client:
```
ssh-audit -c -P ["policy name" | path/to/client_policy.txt]
```

To run a policy audit against many servers:
```
ssh-audit -T servers.txt -P ["policy name" | path/to/server_policy.txt]
```

To create a policy based on a target server (which can be manually edited; see official built-in policies for syntax examples):
```
ssh-audit -M new_policy.txt targetserver
```

### Server Standard Audit Example
Below is a screen shot of the standard server-auditing output when connecting to an unhardened OpenSSH v5.3 service:
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/64388792-317e6f80-d00e-11e9-826e-a4934769bb07.png)

### Server Policy Audit Example
Below is a screen shot of the policy auditing output when connecting to an un-hardened Ubuntu Server 20.04 machine:
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/94370881-95178700-00c0-11eb-8705-3157a4669dc0.png)

After applying the steps in the hardening guide (see below), the output changes to the following:
![screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/94370873-87620180-00c0-11eb-9a59-469f61a56ce1.png)

### Client Standard Audit Example
Below is a screen shot of the client-auditing output when an unhardened OpenSSH v7.2 client connects:
![client_screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2982011/68867998-b946c100-06c4-11ea-975f-1f47e4178a74.png)

### Hardening Guides
Guides to harden server & client configuration can be found here: [https://www.ssh-audit.com/hardening_guides.html](https://www.ssh-audit.com/hardening_guides.html)

### Pre-Built Packages
Pre-built packages are available for Windows (see the releases page), on PyPI, Snap, and Homebrew.

To install from PyPI:
```
$ pip3 install ssh-audit
```

To install the Snap package:
```
$ snap install ssh-audit
```

To install on Homebrew:
```
$ brew install ssh-audit
```

To install from Dockerhub:
```
$ docker pull positronsecurity/ssh-audit
```
(Then run with: `docker run -it -p 2222:2222 positronsecurity/ssh-audit 10.1.1.1`)

### Web Front-End
For convenience, a web front-end on top of the command-line tool is available at [https://www.ssh-audit.com/](https://www.ssh-audit.com/).

## ChangeLog
### v2.3.1-dev (???)
 - Flag `ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com` as a failure due to SHA-1 hash.
 - Now parses public key sizes for `rsa-sha2-256-cert-v01@openssh.com` and `rsa-sha2-512-cert-v01@openssh.com` host key types.
 - Built-in policies now include CA key requirements (if certificates are in use).
 - Migrated pre-made policies from external files to internal database.
 - Split single 3,500 line script into many files (by class).
 - Added setup.py support; credit [Ganden Schaffner](https://github.com/gschaffner).
 - Added 1 new cipher: `des-cbc@ssh.com`.

### v2.3.0 (2020-09-27)
 - Added new policy auditing functionality to test adherence to a hardening guide/standard configuration (see `-L`/`--list-policies`, `-M`/`--make-policy` and `-P`/`--policy`).  For an in-depth tutorial, see <https://www.positronsecurity.com/blog/2020-09-27-ssh-policy-configuration-checks-with-ssh-audit/>.
 - Created new man page (see `ssh-audit.1` file).
 - 1024-bit moduli upgraded from warnings to failures.
 - Many Python 2 code clean-ups, testing framework improvements, pylint & flake8 fixes, and mypy type comments; credit [Jürgen Gmach](https://github.com/jugmac00).
 - Added feature to look up algorithms in internal database (see `--lookup`); credit [Adam Russell](https://github.com/thecliguy).
 - Suppress recommendation of token host key types.
 - Added check for use-after-free vulnerability in PuTTY v0.73.
 - Added 11 new host key types: `ssh-rsa1`, `ssh-dss-sha256@ssh.com`, `ssh-gost2001`, `ssh-gost2012-256`, `ssh-gost2012-512`, `spki-sign-rsa`, `ssh-ed448`, `x509v3-ecdsa-sha2-nistp256`, `x509v3-ecdsa-sha2-nistp384`, `x509v3-ecdsa-sha2-nistp521`, `x509v3-rsa2048-sha256`.
 - Added 8 new key exchanges: `diffie-hellman-group1-sha256`, `kexAlgoCurve25519SHA256`, `Curve25519SHA256`, `gss-group14-sha256-`, `gss-group15-sha512-`, `gss-group16-sha512-`, `gss-nistp256-sha256-`, `gss-curve25519-sha256-`.
 - Added 5 new ciphers: `blowfish`, `AEAD_AES_128_GCM`, `AEAD_AES_256_GCM`, `crypticore128@ssh.com`, `seed-cbc@ssh.com`.
 - Added 3 new MACs: `chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com`, `hmac-sha3-224`, `crypticore-mac@ssh.com`.

### v2.2.0 (2020-03-11)
 - Marked host key type `ssh-rsa` as weak due to [practical SHA-1 collisions](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/014.pdf).
 - Added Windows builds.
 - Added 10 new host key types: `ecdsa-sha2-1.3.132.0.10`, `x509v3-sign-dss`, `x509v3-sign-rsa`, `x509v3-sign-rsa-sha256@ssh.com`, `x509v3-ssh-dss`, `x509v3-ssh-rsa`, `sk-ecdsa-sha2-nistp256-cert-v01@openssh.com`, `sk-ecdsa-sha2-nistp256@openssh.com`, `sk-ssh-ed25519-cert-v01@openssh.com`, and `sk-ssh-ed25519@openssh.com`.
 - Added 18 new key exchanges: `diffie-hellman-group14-sha256@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group15-sha256@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group15-sha384@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group16-sha384@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group16-sha512@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group18-sha512@ssh.com`, `ecdh-sha2-curve25519`, `ecdh-sha2-nistb233`, `ecdh-sha2-nistb409`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk163`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk233`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk283`, `ecdh-sha2-nistk409`, `ecdh-sha2-nistp192`, `ecdh-sha2-nistp224`, `ecdh-sha2-nistt571`, `gss-gex-sha1-`, and `gss-group1-sha1-`.
 - Added 9 new ciphers: `camellia128-cbc`, `camellia128-ctr`, `camellia192-cbc`, `camellia192-ctr`, `camellia256-cbc`, `camellia256-ctr`, `aes128-gcm`, `aes256-gcm`, and `chacha20-poly1305`.
 - Added 2 new MACs: `aes128-gcm` and `aes256-gcm`.

### v2.1.1 (2019-11-26)
 - Added 2 new host key types: `rsa-sha2-256-cert-v01@openssh.com`, `rsa-sha2-512-cert-v01@openssh.com`.
 - Added 2 new ciphers: `des`, `3des`.
 - Added 3 new PuTTY vulnerabilities.
 - During client testing, client IP address is now listed in output.

### v2.1.0 (2019-11-14)
 - Added client software auditing functionality (see `-c` / `--client-audit` option).
 - Added JSON output option (see `-j` / `--json` option; credit [Andreas Jaggi](https://github.com/x-way)).
 - Fixed crash while scanning Solaris Sun_SSH.
 - Added 9 new key exchanges: `gss-group1-sha1-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-gex-sha1-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-group14-sha1-`, `gss-group14-sha1-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-group14-sha256-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `gss-group15-sha512-toWM5Slw5Ew8Mqkay+al2g==`, `diffie-hellman-group15-sha256`, `ecdh-sha2-1.3.132.0.10`, `curve448-sha512`.
 - Added 1 new host key type: `ecdsa-sha2-1.3.132.0.10`.
 - Added 4 new ciphers: `idea-cbc`, `serpent128-cbc`, `serpent192-cbc`, `serpent256-cbc`.
 - Added 6 new MACs: `hmac-sha2-256-96-etm@openssh.com`, `hmac-sha2-512-96-etm@openssh.com`, `hmac-ripemd`, `hmac-sha256-96@ssh.com`, `umac-32@openssh.com`, `umac-96@openssh.com`.

### v2.0.0 (2019-08-29)
 - Forked from https://github.com/arthepsy/ssh-audit (development was stalled, and developer went MIA).
 - Added RSA host key length test.
 - Added RSA certificate key length test.
 - Added Diffie-Hellman modulus size test.
 - Now outputs host key fingerprints for RSA and ED25519.
 - Added 5 new key exchanges: `sntrup4591761x25519-sha512@tinyssh.org`, `diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha256@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha512@ssh.com`, `diffie-hellman-group16-sha256`, `diffie-hellman-group17-sha512`.
 - Added 3 new encryption algorithms: `des-cbc-ssh1`, `blowfish-ctr`, `twofish-ctr`.
 - Added 10 new MACs: `hmac-sha2-56`, `hmac-sha2-224`, `hmac-sha2-384`, `hmac-sha3-256`, `hmac-sha3-384`, `hmac-sha3-512`, `hmac-sha256`, `hmac-sha256@ssh.com`, `hmac-sha512`, `hmac-512@ssh.com`.
 - Added command line argument (`-t` / `--timeout`) for connection & reading timeouts.
 - Updated CVEs for libssh & Dropbear.

### v1.7.0 (2016-10-26)
 - implement options to allow specify IPv4/IPv6 usage and order of precedence
 - implement option to specify remote port (old behavior kept for compatibility)
 - add colors support for Microsoft Windows via optional colorama dependency
 - fix encoding and decoding issues, add tests, do not crash on encoding errors
 - use mypy-lang for static type checking and verify all code

### v1.6.0 (2016-10-14)
 - implement algorithm recommendations section (based on recognized software)
 - implement full libssh support (version history, algorithms, security, etc)
 - fix SSH-1.99 banner recognition and version comparison functionality
 - do not output empty algorithms (happens for misconfigured servers)
 - make consistent output for Python 3.x versions
 - add a lot more tests (conf, banner, software, SSH1/SSH2, output, etc)
 - use Travis CI to test for multiple Python versions (2.6-3.5, pypy, pypy3)

### v1.5.0 (2016-09-20)
 - create security section for related security information
 - match and output assigned CVE list and security issues for Dropbear SSH
 - implement full SSH1 support with fingerprint information
 - automatically fallback to SSH1 on protocol mismatch
 - add new options to force SSH1 or SSH2 (both allowed by default)
 - parse banner information and convert it to specific software and OS version
 - do not use padding in batch mode
 - several fixes (Cisco sshd, rare hangs, error handling, etc)

### v1.0.20160902
 - implement batch output option
 - implement minimum output level option
 - fix compatibility with Python 2.6

### v1.0.20160812
 - implement SSH version compatibility feature
 - fix wrong mac algorithm warning
 - fix Dropbear SSH version typo
 - parse pre-banner header
 - better errors handling

### v1.0.20160803
 - use OpenSSH 7.3 banner
 - add new key-exchange algorithms

### v1.0.20160207
 - use OpenSSH 7.2 banner
 - additional warnings for OpenSSH 7.2 
 - fix OpenSSH 7.0 failure messages
 - add rijndael-cbc failure message from OpenSSH 6.7

### v1.0.20160105
 - multiple additional warnings
 - support for none algorithm
 - better compression handling  
 - ensure reading enough data (fixes few Linux SSH)  

### v1.0.20151230
 - Dropbear SSH support  

### v1.0.20151223
 - initial version
